# JSX expressions and rendering elements

## 1. JSX Expressions:

* JSX (JavaScript XML) allows you to write HTML-like code within your JavaScript files.
* It's a syntax extension for JavaScript that simplifies the creation of UI elements in React. 
* JSX expressions are essentially a way to embed JavaScript expressions within your JSX code. 

**Here are some key points to understand about JSX expressions:**

**Embedding JavaScript:** 
* You can use curly braces {} to insert JavaScript expressions within JSX. 
* This allows you to dynamically compute values, render components conditionally, and more.

```jsx
const name = "John";
const greeting = <p>Hello, {name}!</p>;
```

**Using JavaScript Functions:**
- You can also use JavaScript functions within JSX expressions to generate content dynamically.

```jsx
function formatName(user) {
  return user.firstName + " " + user.lastName;
}

const user = {
  firstName: "John",
  lastName: "Doe",
};

const greeting = <p>Hello, {formatName(user)}!</p>;
Ternary Expressions: You can use ternary expressions within JSX to conditionally render elements.
```

```jsx
const isLoggedIn = true;
const greeting = isLoggedIn ? <p>Welcome back!</p> : <p>Please log in.</p>;
```

**Mapping Arrays:**
*  When you have an array of data, you can use map() to iterate through the array and generate JSX for each element.

```jsx
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const listItems = numbers.map((number) => <li key={number}>{number}</li>);
```

## 2. Rendering Elements:

- React elements are the fundamental building blocks of a React application. 
- These elements represent what should be displayed on the screen. 

- Here's how you render React elements:

**Creating Elements:**
-  React elements can be created using JSX. You can create an element by describing what you want to see on the screen.

```jsx
const element = <h1>Hello, JSX!</h1>;
```

**Rendering Elements:**
- To display a React element on the web page, you need to render it into the DOM. 
- This is typically done using the ReactDOM.render() method.

```jsx
const element = <h1>Hello, JSX!</h1>;
ReactDOM.render(element, document.getElementById('root'));
```

**Updating Elements:**  
- Elements are immutable in React. Once an element is created, you can't change its children or attributes. 
- However, you can create a new element with the desired changes and re-render it.

```jsx
const updatedElement = <h1>Hello, Updated JSX!</h1>;
ReactDOM.render(updatedElement, document.getElementById('root'));
```

- JSX expressions allow you to embed JavaScript within your JSX code, making it dynamic and responsive to data and state changes. 
- React elements are created using JSX and can be rendered into the DOM, allowing you to build and update the user interface of your React application.

## Author

- [Poorvi Gopal](https://github.com/PoorviGopal)
- Email: poorviadt@gmail.com
