# Component lifecycle methods (class components)

- In React, class components offer lifecycle methods for tasks like data setup, DOM interactions, and resource cleanup. 
- Understanding these methods is important, even as React shifts towards functional components with hooks.

**1. constructor(props):**

- The first method called when an instance of the component is created.
- Used to initialize the component's state and bind event handlers.
- The props parameter is available to access the component's props.

```jsx
constructor(props) {
  super(props);
  this.state = { count: 0 };
  this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
}
```

**2. render():**

- A required method in class components.
- Returns the JSX that defines the component's UI.

```jsx
render() {
  return <div>Count: {this.state.count}</div>;
}
```
**3. componentDidMount():**

- Called after the component has been inserted into the DOM.
- Often used for tasks like making API requests or setting up event listeners.

```jsx
componentDidMount() {
  this.timerId = setInterval(() => {
    this.setState((prevState) => ({ count: prevState.count + 1 }));
  }, 1000);
}
```

**4. componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState):**

- Called after the component's updates are flushed to the DOM.
- Typically used for responding to changes in props or state.

```jsx
componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState) {
  if (this.props.id !== prevProps.id) {
    // Perform actions when the 'id' prop changes
  }
}
```

**5. componentWillUnmount():**

- Called just before the component is removed from the DOM.
- Used for cleaning up resources, such as event listeners or timers.

```jsx
componentWillUnmount() {
  clearInterval(this.timerId);
}
```

**6. shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState):**

- Allows you to control whether the component should re-render or not.
- A performance optimization; returning false prevents re-rendering.

```jsx
shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
  return this.props.id !== nextProps.id;
}
```

- These lifecycle methods provide hooks into various phases of a component's life cycle, enabling you to perform actions at specific points in the component's existence.

## Author

- [Poorvi Gopal](https://github.com/PoorviGopal)
- Email: poorviadt@gmail.com
